readme.md, before:

EduMIPS64 README
================

EduMIPS64 is a cross-platform visual MIPS64 CPU simulator written in
Java/swing. 

The EduMIPS64 web site is http://www.edumips.org. There is also a 
developers' blog at http://edumips64.blogspot.com.

To learn how it works and how to use it, please refer to the
EduMIPS64 User Manual (in the docs/{en,it}/output/latex directory). This file
is a short guide for developers who are interested in compiling the
simulator from scratch and/or modifying its source code.

Requirements
------------

In order to compile EduMIPS64, you need the following tools:
- Java JDK version 1.5 or above (tested only with Sun JDK)
- Apache Ant version 1.8 or above (needed for JUnit 4 tests)
- Sphinx (http://sphinx.pocoo.org/) versione 1.0.7 or above
- GNU Make

The two latter dependencies are needed for the in-application help.

If you need to compile the PDF manual, you will also need:
- latex / pdflatex

If you need to run unit tests, or build the javadoc, you will also need:
- JUnit version 4

Main Ant targets
----------------

* `standalone-jar` builds the jar package named edumips64-`version`.jar, that
  embeds the JavaHelp libraries, and is oriented towards users downloading the
  JAR archive from the website (not through package managers).

* `slim-jar` builds the jar package named edumips64-`version`-nodeps.jar, that
  does not embed the JavaHelp libraries and is oriented towards distribution
  package creators, that should add a dependency on JavaHelp and appropriately
  set the classpath in their scripts.

* `docs` builds the user documentation (both in-app HTML and PDF)

* `clean` removes the jar files, the build directory and the compiled
  documentation

* `test` runs unit tests; it depends on junit4.jar being added to the
  classpath

* `debug-jar` builds a jar package that contains more debug information

* `cli-jar` build a jar package containing an experimental CLI front-end

* `src-release` builds a tar.bz2 file containing the source distribution

* `javadoc` builds the javadoc documentation (depends on junit4.jar being
  in CLASSPATH); will store it in the `javadoc` directory.

Example
-------

    $ ant
    [... compilation output omitted ...]
    $ java -jar edumips64-1.0.jar

Commit message:

Add JUnit to libs/, change target to JRE 6

readme.md, after:

EduMIPS64 README
================

EduMIPS64 is a cross-platform visual MIPS64 CPU simulator written in
Java/swing. 

The EduMIPS64 web site is http://www.edumips.org. There is also a 
developers' blog at http://edumips64.blogspot.com.

To learn how it works and how to use it, please refer to the
EduMIPS64 User Manual (in the docs/{en,it}/output/latex directory). This file
is a short guide for developers who are interested in compiling the
simulator from scratch and/or modifying its source code.

Requirements
------------

In order to compile EduMIPS64, you need the following tools:
- Java JDK version 6 or above. The simulator has been originally developed
  using Java 5, but since version 5 has reached EOL and modern distributions
  don't supply it anymore, the current target is version 6.
- Apache Ant version 1.8 or above (needed for JUnit 4 tests)
- Sphinx (http://sphinx.pocoo.org/) versione 1.0.7 or above
- GNU Make

The two latter dependencies are needed for the in-application help.

If you need to compile the PDF manual, you will also need:
- latex / pdflatex

A distribution of JUnit 4 is included in the libs/ directory, since it is
needed for unit test and this project uses Travis CI for continuous
integration.

Main Ant targets
----------------

* `standalone-jar` builds the jar package named edumips64-`version`.jar, that
  embeds the JavaHelp libraries, and is oriented towards users downloading the
  JAR archive from the website (not through package managers).

* `slim-jar` builds the jar package named edumips64-`version`-nodeps.jar, that
  does not embed the JavaHelp libraries and is oriented towards distribution
  package creators, that should add a dependency on JavaHelp and appropriately
  set the classpath in their scripts.

* `docs` builds the user documentation (both in-app HTML and PDF)

* `clean` removes the jar files, the build directory and the compiled
  documentation

* `test` runs unit tests; it depends on junit4.jar being added to the
  classpath

* `debug-jar` builds a jar package that contains more debug information

* `cli-jar` build a jar package containing an experimental CLI front-end

* `src-release` builds a tar.bz2 file containing the source distribution

* `javadoc` builds the javadoc documentation (depends on junit4.jar being
  in CLASSPATH); will store it in the `javadoc` directory.

Example
-------

    $ ant
    [... compilation output omitted ...]
    $ java -jar edumips64-1.0.jar
