.. EduMIPS64 documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Apr 26 23:10:10 2011.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to the EduMIPS64 documentation!
=======================================

EduMIPS64 is a MIPS64 Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) simulator. It is
designed to be used to execute small programs that use the subset of the
MIPS64 ISA implemented by the simulator, allowing the user to see how
instructions behave in the pipeline, how stalls are handled by the CPU, the
status of registers and memory and much more. It is both a simulator and a
visual debugger.

The website for the project is http://www.edumips.org, and the code is hosted
at http://github.com/lupino3/edumips64. If you find any bugs, or have any
suggestion for improving the simulator, please open an issue on github or send
an email at bugs@edumips.org.

EduMIPS64 is developed by a group of students of the University of Catania
(Italy), and started as a clone of WinMIPS64, even if now there are lots of
differences between the two simulators.

This manual will introduce you to EduMIPS64, and will cover some details on
how to use it.

The first chapter of this manual covers the format of source files accepted
by the simulator, describing the data types and the directives, in addition
to command line parameters. In the second chapter there's an overview of the
subset of the MIPS64 instruction set that is accepted by EduMIPS64, with all
the needed parameters and indications to use them. The third chapter is a
description of the Floating Point Unit and its instruction set.
The fourth chapter is a description of the user interface of EduMIPS64, that
explains the purpose of each frame and menu, along with a description of the
configuration dialog, the Dinero frontend dialog, the Manual dialog and
command line options. The fifth chapter contains some useful examples.

This manual describes EduMIPS64 version |version|.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   source-files-format
   instructions
   fpu
   user-interface
   examples

.. Indices and tables
   ==================

   * :ref:`genindex`
   * :ref:`modindex`
   * :ref:`search`

