docs/design/web-ui-roadmap.md, before:

# Web UI Roadmap
This is the list of user stories for the web UI, categorized in milestones, which
will serve as a guide for the development of the Web UI.

In the milestone list, stories will be addressed with the initial of their
section and then the number of the story (e.g., `BREAK support` is `E.6`).

## Milestones
### Alpha (EduMIPS64 2.0-alpha)
Status: **In Progress**
Project link on GitHub: https://github.com/orgs/EduMIPS64/projects/1

This milestone is a basic working simulator, with a pretty rough UI and just enough
basic features to run most programs and verify its working.

User stories and features:

* `E.1-6` (Full IS support, even with primitive UI and partial support for SYSCALL)
* `U.1-5` (Basic functional UI, no settings)

### Beta (EduMIPS64 2.0-beta)
Status: **Not started**

This milestone will improve the UI and split it out in its own repository
and enable settings support.

User stories and features:

* `D.1-3` (Separate repo, proper toolchain, Material UI)
* `U.6-8` (Improved UI, including settings)
* `S.1-2` (Forwarding setting)

### GA (EduMIPS64 2.0)
Status: **Not started**

Fully working web simulator, suitable as a replacement for the current simulator.

* `E.7-8` (Dinero Tracefile Download, file-based SYSCALL)
* `U.9-10` (Better code editor, localization)
* `S.3-5` (Most runtime settings)
* `D.4` (Instrumentation)

### Future (EduMIPS64 3.0)
Status: **Not started**

The web allows us to do much more than we could do as a Java application. Examples
of future features might be:

* live error checking
* shareable EduMIPS64 sessions based on simulator state (query string)
* "Run with EduMIPS64" button?
* support for opening from URL?
* maybe some sort of backend support to have workspaces, save files in external
  services such as GDrive, Gist, etc..
* a no-Javascript version that uses SSR?

## User Stories / Features
### Prerequisites
This section contains the preliminary work necessary to move forward with the
implementation of the remaining features.

1. experiment with web frameworks and decide which one to use (#86)
2. decide which layout to use (#86)

### Execution
1. open a MIPS64 assembly program from a text area
2. executing a MIPS64 assembly program
   1. all at once
   1. showing progress as time goes by
      1. setting a customizable processor frequency (to show updates slowly)
   1. step-by-step
      1. with a customizable stride
  1. reset execution state while paused
4. graceful handling of all errors, including parser errors
5. SYSCALL support
   1. console I/O (via Web UI)
6. BREAK support
7. downloading a Dinero Tracefile at the end of the execution
8. SYSCALL File I/O (not sure it's possible, needs to be investigated)

### UI
1. Basic code editor text area widget
2. Execution controls (start/stop/etc.)
3. Basic registers, memory and code widgets.
4. Basic pipeline widget (no graphics, just text)
5. I/O widget (necessary for `E.5.1`)
6. Full Pipeline widget (state of which instructions are in which stage)
7. Full Cycles widget (temporal instruction diagram)
8. Settings UI (necessary for `S.*`)
9. Code editor with syntax highlighting (e.g., ACE or Monaco)
10. Localization

### Settings
1. Enabling / disabling forwarding
2. Storing preferences locally (probably with HTML5 storage)
3. Setting options related to exceptions
4. Setting options related to the FPU
5. Setting parser warning/errors options

### Development features
1. Move to a proper JS toolchain. Build and deploy the frontend JS from a separate GitHub repository to web.edumips.org. (#87)
2. Move to React Material UI
3. Find a good (dashboard) Material UI template to use as a starting point (e.g. https://github.com/devias-io/react-material-dashboard)
4. Instrument web UI (Google Analytics + some metrics)

Commit message:

Add introduction to the Web UI roadmap (#350)

docs/design/web-ui-roadmap.md, after:

# Web UI Roadmap
This is the list of user stories for the web UI, categorized in milestones, which
will serve as a guide for the development of the Web UI.

In the milestone list, stories will be addressed with the initial of their
section and then the number of the story (e.g., `BREAK support` is `E.6`).

## Introduction

EduMIPS64 was born in 2006 as a desktop application, even if it initially ran
as a Java applet in addition to running as a desktop app.

As technology evolved, Java applets became obsolete, and EduMIPS64 doesn't run as
an applet anymore, but the idea of running the simulator on a browser is still
something useful, because it reduces installation friction and enables lots of
scenarios that are simply not possible in a desktop application.

In 2016, the core parts of the simulator were cleaned up and separated from the
rest of the application, and cross-compiled to JavaScript with Google Web Toolkit.

This document analyzes the work necessary to build a modern, clean web UI for
EduMIPS64 and, by extension, refine the Java -> JS API created with GWT.

## Milestones
### Alpha (EduMIPS64 2.0-alpha)
Status: **In Progress**
Project link on GitHub: https://github.com/orgs/EduMIPS64/projects/1

This milestone is a basic working simulator, with a pretty rough UI and just enough
basic features to run most programs and verify its working.

User stories and features:

* `E.1-6` (Full IS support, even with primitive UI and partial support for SYSCALL)
* `U.1-5` (Basic functional UI, no settings)

### Beta (EduMIPS64 2.0-beta)
Status: **Not started**

This milestone will improve the UI and split it out in its own repository
and enable settings support.

User stories and features:

* `D.1-3` (Separate repo, proper toolchain, Material UI)
* `U.6-8` (Improved UI, including settings)
* `S.1-2` (Forwarding setting)

### GA (EduMIPS64 2.0)
Status: **Not started**

Fully working web simulator, suitable as a replacement for the current simulator.

* `E.7-8` (Dinero Tracefile Download, file-based SYSCALL)
* `U.9-10` (Better code editor, localization)
* `S.3-5` (Most runtime settings)
* `D.4` (Instrumentation)

### Future (EduMIPS64 3.0)
Status: **Not started**

The web allows us to do much more than we could do as a Java application. Examples
of future features might be:

* live error checking
* shareable EduMIPS64 sessions based on simulator state (query string)
* "Run with EduMIPS64" button?
* support for opening from URL?
* maybe some sort of backend support to have workspaces, save files in external
  services such as GDrive, Gist, etc..
* a no-Javascript version that uses SSR?

## User Stories / Features
### Prerequisites
This section contains the preliminary work necessary to move forward with the
implementation of the remaining features.

1. experiment with web frameworks and decide which one to use (#86)
2. decide which layout to use (#86)

### Execution
1. open a MIPS64 assembly program from a text area
2. executing a MIPS64 assembly program
   1. all at once
   1. showing progress as time goes by
      1. setting a customizable processor frequency (to show updates slowly)
   1. step-by-step
      1. with a customizable stride
  1. reset execution state while paused
4. graceful handling of all errors, including parser errors
5. SYSCALL support
   1. console I/O (via Web UI)
6. BREAK support
7. downloading a Dinero Tracefile at the end of the execution
8. SYSCALL File I/O (not sure it's possible, needs to be investigated)

### UI
1. Basic code editor text area widget
2. Execution controls (start/stop/etc.)
3. Basic registers, memory and code widgets.
4. Basic pipeline widget (no graphics, just text)
5. I/O widget (necessary for `E.5.1`)
6. Full Pipeline widget (state of which instructions are in which stage)
7. Full Cycles widget (temporal instruction diagram)
8. Settings UI (necessary for `S.*`)
9. Code editor with syntax highlighting (e.g., ACE or Monaco)
10. Localization
11. Show binary/decimal/hex values of all numbers in the UI.

### Settings
1. Enabling / disabling forwarding
2. Storing preferences locally (probably with HTML5 storage)
3. Setting options related to exceptions
4. Setting options related to the FPU
5. Setting parser warning/errors options

### Development features
1. Move to a proper JS toolchain. Build and deploy the frontend JS from a separate GitHub repository to web.edumips.org. (#87)
2. Move to React Material UI
3. Find a good (dashboard) Material UI template to use as a starting point (e.g. https://github.com/devias-io/react-material-dashboard)
4. Instrument web UI (Google Analytics + some metrics)
